=pod

=head1 NAME

DateTime::Format::ISO8601 - Parses ISO8601 formats

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use DateTime::Format::ISO8601;

    my $dt = DateTime::Format::ISO8601->parse_datetime( $str );

    or

    my $dt = DateTime::Format::ISO8601->parse_time( $str );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Parses almost all ISO 8601:2000(E) date and time formats.
ISO 8601:2000(E) time-intervals will be supported in a later release.

=head1 FORMATS

There are 6 string that can match against date only or time only formats.
The C<parse_datetime> method will attempt to match these ambiguous strings
against date only formats.  If you want to match against the time only
formats see the C<parse_time> method.

=head2 Conventions

=over 4

=item * Expanded ISO8601

These formats are supported with exactly 6 digits for the year.
Support for a variable number of digits will be in a later release.

=item * Precision

If a format doesn't include full precision all larger time unit values
are filled in using the current date/time.

=item * Fractional time

There is no limit on the expressed precision.

=back

=head2 Supported via parse_datetime

The supported formats are listed by the section of ISO 8601:2000(E) in
which they appear.

=head3 5.2 Dates

=head3 5.2.1.1

    YYYYMMDD
    YYYY-MM-DD

=head3 5.2.1.2

    YYYY-MM
    YYYY
    YY

=head3 5.2.1.3

    YYMMDD
    YY-MM-DD
    -YYMM
    -YY-MM
    -YY
    --MMDD
    --MM-DD
    --MM
    ---DD

=head3 5.2.1.4

    +[YY]YYYYMMDD
    +[YY]YYYY-MM-DD
    +[YY]YYYY-MM
    +[YY]YYYY
    +[YY]YY

=head3 5.2.2.1

    YYYYDDD
    YYYY-DDD

=head3 5.2.2.2

    YYDDD
    YY-DDD
    -DDD

=head3 5.2.2.3

    +[YY]YYYYDDD
    +[YY]YYYY-DDD

=head3 5.3.2.1

    YYYYWwwD
    YYYY-Www-D

=head3 5.2.3.2

    YYYYWww
    YYYY-Www
    YYWwwD
    YY-Www-D
    YYWww
    YY-Www
    -YWwwD
    -Y-Www-D
    -YWww
    -Y-Www
    -WwwD
    -Www-D
    -Www
    -W-D

=head3 5.2.3.4

    +[YY]YYYYWwwD
    +[YY]YYYY-Www-D
    +[YY]YYYYWww
    +[YY]YYYY-Www

=head3 5.3 Time of Day

=head3 5.3.1.1 - 5.3.1.3

maybe prefixed with 'T'

=head3 5.3.1.1

    hh:mm:ss

=head3 5.3.1.2

    hh:mm

=head3 5.3.1.3 - 5.3.1.4

fractional (decimal) separator maybe either ',' or '.'

=head3 5.3.1.3

    hhmmss,ss
    hh:mm:ss,ss
    hhmm,mm
    hh:mm,mm
    hh,hh

=head3 5.3.1.4

    -mm:ss
    -mmss,s
    -mm:ss,s
    -mm,m
    --ss,s

=head3 5.3.3 - 5.3.4.2

maybe prefixed with 'T'

=head3 5.3.3

    hhmmssZ
    hh:mm:ssZ
    hhmmZ
    hh:mmZ
    hhZ

=head3 5.3.4.2

    hhmmss[+-]hhmm
    hh:mm:ss[+-]hh:mm
    hhmmss[+-]hh
    hh:mm:ss[+-]hh

=head3 5.4 Combinations of date and time of day

=head3 5.4.1

    YYYYMMDDThhmmss
    YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss
    YYYYMMDDThhmmssZ
    YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ
    YYYYMMDDThhmmss[+-]hhmm
    YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss[+-]hh:mm
    YYYYMMDDThhmmss[+-]hh
    YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss[+-]hh

=head3 5.4.2

Support for this section is not complete.

    YYYYMMDDThhmm
    YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm
    YYYYDDDThhmmZ
    YYYY-DDDThh:mmZ
    YYYYWwwDThhmm[+-]hhmm
    YYYY-Www-DThh:mm[+-]hh

=head3 5.5 Time-Intervals

Will be supported in a later release.

=head2 Supported via parse_time

=head3 5.3.1.1 - 5.3.1.3

maybe prefixed with 'T'

=head3 5.3.1.1

    hhmmss

=head3 5.3.1.2

    hhmm
    hh

=head3 5.3.1.4

    -mmss
    -mm
    --ss

=head1 STANDARDS DOCUMENT

=head2 Title

    ISO8601:2000(E) 
    Data elements and interchange formats - information exchange -
    Representation of dates and times
    Second edition 2000-12-15

=head2 Reference Number

    ISO/TC 154 N 362

=head1 CREDITS

Iain "Spoon" Truskett (SPOON) who wrote C<DateTime::Format::Builder>.
That has grown into I<The Vacuum Energy Powered C<Swiss Army> Katana> 
of date and time parsing.  This module was inspired by and conceived
in honor of C<DateTime::Format::Builder>.

Tom Phoenix (PHOENIX) and PDX.pm for helping me solve the ISO week conversion
bug.  Not by fixing the code but motivation me to fix it so I could
participate in a game of C<Zendo>.

Everyone at the DateTime C<Asylum>.

=head1 SUPPORT
 
Support for this module is provided via the datetime@perl.org email
list. See http://lists.perl.org/ for more details.

=head1 AUTHOR
 
Joshua Hoblitt <jhoblitt@cpan.org>
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT
 
Copyright (c) 2003 Joshua Hoblitt.  All rights reserved.  This program
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.
 
The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
with this module.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO
 
datetime@perl.org mailing list
 
http://datetime.perl.org/
 
=cut
